>> Scott Moss: The next
thing I wanna talk about.
So I mentioned something about managing
local state with Apollo and GraphQL.
And yeah, I wanna talk about that
cuz I think it's really cool.
And in order to learn about that you
have to understand client side schemas.
So, if you're taking any of
the Apollo server side courses or
the GraphQL server side
courses that we have here,
you already learned how to create
schemas on the server side.
If not, you're gonna learn how
to create schemas on the client
side now which are very similar
to schemas on the server side and
why you need them in the first place.
So why?
In addition to managing data from
your API Apollo client can also
manage local state originated
from your front end app.
Stuff you would normally store
in something like Redux or view.
You can create a schema to define that
state, which allows you to query for
that state the same way you query for
your API data.
So, that's basically a long way of saying
you can define the state that
you create locally in your app
the same way you define state on
your server, which is a schema.
And then you can use graphical
queries to retrieve that state.
And you can mix those queries
in with the exact same queries
are used to retrieve
state from the server.
You don't have to make separate queries,
you can make one query that gets.
Server data and
local data at the same time and
Apollo will resolve them for you with
no changes to your code, no issues.
Your app will never know what came
from local and what came from server,
it won't even know,
it's the same thing, it's pretty legit.
So, yeah like I said, the same way just
like the server, all you have to do is
extend the types that your server
schema has created for you.
And then you have to use what is called a
directive and I'll show you what directive
is to access the local state
from your queries and mutations.
So what do I mean by that?
Let' get into the example.
So if we head over to client JS, and
let's say we wanted to add
a new type to the user.
Let's just make a new type for the user.
The first thing you have to do
is you have to make a schema.
So to make a graph scale schema,
you need two things,
you need some type definitions and
you need some resolvers.
Resolvers are functions
that are responsible for
getting the values for
the fields on your type definitions.
So let's just make some
type definitions here.
So, we'll say type defs and
we're going to use the gql tag here,
just like we do in our crazy mutations and
we're gonna use what's called
the schema definition language.
The schema definition language
is slightly different than
the query language that you use
to make queries and mutations, so
what we need to do is use
a keyword here called extend.
And because we're trying to add
a new field to the User type,
we're gonna extend the User type here.
So extend user, like that,
or extend type User.
And we know we have a User type,
because if you go back to our
code which is somewhere around here,
we go back to this.
>> Scott Moss: We can look at our schema.
>> Scott Moss: And we can look for
user, there we go,
user type has an idea username and pets.
So we can extend this to
have whatever else we want.
So we're gonna extend it to add
a field for, I don't know, age.
We'll add a new field that says age,
if you needed to know the user's age for
some reason.
So we'll extend it, we'll give the user
an age and we'll say its type is
integer like that, okay?
Everybody follow me so far?
Okay, then we'll make some resolvers.
>> Scott Moss: We'll make some resolvers
which is gonna be an object that
maps directly to the user
type which is also an object.
And we're gonna make a function
that's going to be executed when we
are interested in the age of a user.
So, if we want an age of a user, I'm just
going to return a hard code of value and
say
>> Scott Moss: 35, all users are 35.
>> Scott Moss: It's an integer
that matches up with this.
>> Scott Moss: Everybody follow me here?
Okay, and all we have to do from there
is add it to our client down below.
So we can say here's some resolvers and
here's some type definitions.
>> Scott Moss: Right, so
we're defining some local state,
age does not exist on the server.
This is not gonna push it
back up to our server,
and then our server has to do something.
Nope, this is all local.
We can do whatever we want with
this,wWe can derive this from anywhere,
we can do whatever we want.
This is local state.
And we're just adding it to Apollo,
so Apollo knows about it.
And we're extending it on the user type.
So now, if I go back to pets,
I know pets have an owner.
And I know that because if
I go look at the pet type,
there is an owner here,
which is a user type.
And a user has a ID and
username of pets, so
what I'll do is I'll grab the owner and
I'll grab the ID of the owner,
always grab the ID and then what I want,
is I wanna get the age.
But if I just put age like this,
this is gonna go to our server, and
our server's gonna go, like, what's that?
I've never heard of that,
I don't know what age is.
So we have to tell Apollo like,
okay actually this one doesn't
need to go to the server.
So this is where the director
was talking about his,
he's the director of these outside,
like this and you'll just say client.
>> Scott Moss: This is saying, this age
phil is only on the client don’t go to
the server with it, keep it here and
give it to the client.That's basically is,
and that's the direct to syntax,
you can have directives to fields types,
you pretty much add
the redress to anything.
On the schema side and
the query mutation side there’s
different types of directives.
But this is the client directive
that we get for free without Apollo.
All right, so once we have that,
we can kinda take a look at this data.
So, let's just say console.log data.pets.
And we'll just maybe look at it like
the first one, see what happens.
Cool, so we got that
>> Scott Moss: Get rid of that thing and
refresh this, go look at this log here.
We get back in Object, we go look at
the owner and then wow, there it is.
The owner has an age of 35.
>> Scott Moss: So we were able to
merge some local state that we had,
we extended it from some server
type that we created on the server,
either we did, or someone else on our
team, or whatever API we're using.
And we were able to mix
them together seamlessly,
and we didn't have to make any code
changes, as far as our components.
They don't really need to know anything,
they don't even know if this came from,
you couldn't look at this and
say that it came from local state.
How would you know?
It's Summer's object.
>> Scott Moss: That right
there is super powerful.
So Apollo's just came out with this,
I would say probably not too long
ago within the last year or so.
And that's like one of the best features
that's kind of like why they rip.
They used to have Redux built
into the Apollo client.
They rip it out and
the opposite for their own thing,
and I'm glad they did because they
enable them to build stuff like that.
And this is where you can kind of start
replacing Redux with your own stuff,
because you can just store local state and
the way you resolve it is by
creating a schema with some type daps that
you either created or extended yourself.
And you just resolve them however
you want, they're just resolvers,
you can make a resolve or do whatever
you want to take the same arguments.
As the resolvers on the server
side which would be
the current user in this case,
so the first argument.
They would take any inputs that you had or
any orders that you had,
they will take some context here that
would be created for you from Apollo.
And even an info with an AST of
the query that you're trying to create,
just like a server would.
And you can do whatever you
want to resolve that value.
So the client side state
management is pretty powerful.
>> Speaker 2: And all of these changes
have to trickle down through our response
to adding a pet to our optimistic
response from having added the pet.
>> Scott Moss: 100%, so really even user
here, we even have an optimistic response
for user, but yeah if this was a pet,
and we added a field to the pet.
Then you bet you gotta go back
to the optimistic response and
add that field on there.
>> Speaker 2: But
since our get AllPets has the owner on it,
that same data structure
has to be on there.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, yep, so since I
added the owner here on my AllPets,
not only do I have to
add it to my mutation.
>> Scott Moss: I also have to add
it to my optimistic response.
So that's kind of annoying, right?
So that's good,
because that leads us right into the next
thing that I'm about to talk about.
[LAUGH] So that's really great.
So this is what I was saying, GraphQL
can pretty much be executed anywhere.
This, we're not even in a server, we're on
the client and we're creating schemas and
writing resolvers,
because that's all GraphQL does.
It's a very simple function
in fact underlying tool for
every GraphQL process that I've ever used
is a little function from GraphQL JS
that takes in a query or a mutation,
a schema, some resolvers,
some context in the root value, and
it returns you a resolved value.
That's all it does,
that's literally all this stuff does.
It's very simple, you can pretty much do
whatever you want with it, and there's
new, crazy ways people are starting to do,
new things that people are starting to do
with GraphQL that it's changing a lot of
stuff every day, so this is one of them.